hi I'm Kirk Cameron your host for the
secrets of the Back to the Future
trilogy
in the next half hour we'll take an
inside look at the amazing trilogy of
films that have carried Marty McFly and
Doc Brown across the time barrier
spanning more than a century of
adventure
we'll also answer some of the burning
questions that back to the future fans
all over the world have asked us whether
it's about hoverboards runaway trains or
mystery scenes we'll answer your letters
and as you can see we have plenty of
letters to choose from hey Bella
you Kirk Cameron uh yes sir this
television just arrived for you
for me that's right oh hey it looks like
our first question a Grady Cooper from
Sioux City Iowa writes dear back to the
future when I stop back to the future
parts 2 & 3 I left the theater wishing I
had a hoverboard then I saw an interview
with the director saying there were real
the next day I went to all the toy
stores and sporty good outlets and I
could never find one what's the deal
well I'm sorry to break the news to you
Grady but director Robert Zemeckis was
only joking hoverboards have yet to be
invented but maybe someday but if
hoverboards don't actually exist then
how did the filmmakers make them look so
realistic in the film well it wasn't
easy
by combining old movie tricks and modern
technology the filmmakers with the help
of a few fearless individuals hey how I
met the hoverboard challenge head-on
a lot of the hoverboarding that only
showed michael above the knees was
achieved by having him ride an ordinary
skateboard some been five years I
thought it'd be really didn't pans of
plywood were laid over almost every inch
of the town square to make it look like
Michael was effortlessly gliding over
rough terrain
sometimes a platform dolly was used to
give Michael and the other actors an
even smoother ride
director Robert Zemeckis had a special
harness design which allowed the actors
to fly from an intricate series of wires
supported by an industrial crane yeah we
got to do is we got to hang peg another
crane and you can hang we'd hang your
phone here yeah exactly and finally some
very creative camera rigs all to create
the illusion of flight the film is
actually a combination of different
special-effects techniques whether it
was high-tech low-tech got physical
effect
for an optical effect
just about every type of special effect
known to man was used in making the
hoverboards fly
Rock
now here's a letter from a mr. Joey
farmer which reads dear back to the
future I'm a car salesman in a major
metropolitan area and I gotta say the
main reason I go and see them Back to
the Future movies is to check out that
DeLorean time vehicle boy is that baby
flat equipped if you could give me a
rundown of some of the features of this
fine machine I'd be much obliged
well mr. farmer the delorean has
undergone a lot of changes throughout
the three Back to the Future film now
the essentials like the flux capacitor
this is what makes time travel possible
the time circuit and the destination
keypad have always stayed the same but
for traveling forward to the future Doc
Brown took the DeLorean concept to new
heights modified and future eyes dwith a
simple hover conversion from the Year
2015 the DeLorean was able to defy
gravity as well as the time barrier but
if you're traveling through time you're
going to encounter some different
terrain
whether you're crossing the high plains
or riding the rails in the Old West the
DeLorean is the time machine of choice
in our next letter I'm mrs. Virginia
Shaw writes in dear Back to the Future
those Back to the Future movies look
like they'd be very hard for the actors
with all that running and chasing and
getting hit all the time is it really as
hard as it looks
well mrs. Shaw it is true that one of
the things the Back to the Future films
are known for is the physical demands
placed on the actors
through it all Michael J Fox and
director Robert Zemeckis have developed
a philosophical attitude Bob and I have
an expression that we used on the first
movie which is pain is temporary film is
forever and you know that's all you got
to look at it you know if you get hit
and ahead a couple of times to make a
great film
it's kind of worth it I love action you
know and I love and I love to do stuff
you know I love it when I do something
and you know I can hear someone go not
gonna let him do that okay and I'm like
hey they can't stop me from doing it
while co-star Tom Wilson liked the
physical side of his role he was glad
when it was over
nice shot doc in a film that demands a
lot of physicality you just have to do
it you know I'm not a macho guy at all
I'm anything but you know I mean I don't
uh I don't like voluntee Bob let me do
that one the wood the fallen off the
building thing hey that's mine it's mine
don't get a stunt man yes while all
three Back to the Future movies are
action-packed the final part of the
trilogy presented a new series of
challenges for the actors
galloping at a breakneck speed on
horseback you know spinning a rope over
your head now kicking the horse saying
yeah you know there's something I never
thought I would actually yell at a horse
he ah I always thought you if I yell
something at a horse it will be like
easy big fella
something like that something like whoa
I don't know if part three was
especially more physically demanding
than part two it just seemed like
there's something new every day just
running jumping and falling being
dragged and then also a lot of stuff in
the Train running along the tops the
Train it's fun yeah I mean I really
enjoy it oh good
shooting action sequences requires more
than physical strength scenes must be
carefully choreographed and rehearsed ah
when it comes to a fight sequence it
takes a lot of time to set these things
up because not only does it have to look
exciting but it has to be totally safe
safe for the actors just don't come at
them with the pain come at him with the
rage right after you realize that he's
hoodwink it yeah okay here we go
here we go right action with the actors
set the scene was ready to be shot
people just don't realize the glamour
the glamour the excitement all the game
kids
alright come on to California become
actors do stuff like this okay cut
alright one more just like that beauty
this is me Tom Wilson bidding you a fun
adios
for now goodbye everybody see being an
actor isn't always easy
you've got to be prepared for anything
are you Kirk Cameron yeah yeah I got a
letter for you Thanks
oh great letter it comes from a David
Palmer who says dear Back to the Future
I just watched the original Back to the
Future on videotape for the 27th time
and I think I found a mistake 27th time
in the scene where Marty dresses up like
a spaceman to scare his father in the
50s I noticed a modern-day hairdryer
attached to his belt now I know Marty
didn't bring a blow dryer with him so
had he explained that one well my name
is Darth Vader here's the scene David
was referring to and yep there's the
hairdryer all right
but it's no mistake know what
here in this never-before-seen shot from
Back to the Future we find out where
that hair dryer came from so these all
my personal belongings huh yep what's
this thing Sarah a hair dryer I don't
they have towels in the future look at
these on the pants this suddenly the
futures looking better
our next letter comes from a dr. D Alan
Burris a history professor at a noted
Ivy League university it reads they're
back to the future as an educator in the
study of human history
I have come to the unalterable
conclusion that history tends to repeat
itself is my understanding correct your
conclusion couldn't be more correct
professor in fact Marty McFly came to
the same conclusion the hard way
take a look at fever just breathed in
the door welcome to the cafe 80s well it
breathe Barrington
give me a Pepsi free ice water I only
ones attempts why do you think you're
doing yes I told you to stay get here
he's Griff you unchanged but flood your
Mad Dog Tannen nobody calls me mad dog
you can run squirrel
thank you
Wow look at him go
well here's an interesting letter from a
young girl who writes dear back to the
future I haven't had a chance to see
Back to the Future Part three yet but
somebody spilled the beans that Doc
Brown falls in love in this movie Doc
Brown and loved just what kind of a
woman does it take to win Doc's heart
well obviously the doc wouldn't fall for
just any woman the love of Doc's life is
a very special lady and let's face it
very few relationships start out like
this
I'm in Rajah seriousness um I'm Clayton
lyrically Mary Steenburgen plays a
schoolteacher with whom the dock falls
madly in love she's a little bit
eccentric and her heads a little bit
McLeod's and she's really interested in
science and astronomy and telescopes and
looking at the Stars if you move it this
way the image turns fuzzy see but if you
turn it
father why
everything becomes
I think at the beginning of this story
Marty's very concerned about Clara's
being a giant distraction for the doc
and then he begins to see that his old
friend has fallen in love and and this
is astounding to him the doc and love is
hard to believe what do you mean you can
be seeing lots of her done
well I might see you again just in
passing I mean doc kind of switch roles
and no more easily becomes more of the
adult and doc becomes a young man in
love
look very nice she's working in her own
ways which makes her fine Doc Brown
attractive she's got some independence
she's got some spunk she's somebody that
we hope the audience will want to see
the doc be in love with you know I I'm
almost glad that snake spooked those
horses otherwise we might never have met
suppose it was destiny when she meets
the doc it's like nothing ever made
sense in her whole life
until that moment you're quite welcome
so it's pretty much instant in love and
and they're sort of kindred spirits in a
way I think that they were both kind of
misfits in whatever time they were in
but when they're together everything
makes sense I never met a woman who
liked jewels friends
I never ever met a man like you before
you
so doc finally falls in love so in love
that he's willing to alter time itself
to be with her but just what happens
when you alter time well that's exactly
what high school student Willie Richter
wants to know dear Back to the Future
I've been reading a lot of books about
time travel and they keep mentioning the
cause-and-effect theory of time travel
can you explain what that is sure if we
take a look at bifs actions and Back to
the Future Part two we have a prime
example of this cause-and-effect theory
by stealing the DeLorean and traveling
back to 1955 Biff was able to alter
history by bringing a sports Almanac
from the Year 2015 back with him
Biff was able to get himself forbidden
knowledge about the outcome of every
major sporting event for the next 50
years all you got to do is bet on the
winner and you'll never lose and the
result was catastrophic Biff had
succeeded in creating an alternate
present a nightmare come true the hill
Valley Courthouse was now a casino the
town square had been transformed into a
warzone
and in this scene that was eventually
cut from the film we see what became of
Marty's High School he's not
but just what happens to Biff when he
returns to the future well it's likely
that his wife Lorraine shot him sometime
in the mid-1990s because as we can see
in this scene that was also cut from the
film Biff is literally erased from
existence in the Year 2015 and finally a
question lots of Back to the Future fans
have been asking this letter comes to us
from a little boy who says dear back to
the future I just saw Back to the Future
Part three and my favorite part of it
was the train stuff near the end
my question is didn't it get into
trouble for running that old train off a
foot well the answer is no they didn't
get into trouble for running that train
off a cliff but that's not to say it
wasn't a lot of trouble to do
re-type reggaeton
check the docket Marty have a very
simple problem they have to get the
DeLorean up to 88 miles an hour and even
though a steam train can't go that fast
the dock being a man of science figures
out a way to do it for a few seconds
anyway
even though the Train took quite a
beating there was a limit to what the
filmmakers could do obviously it's
impossible to take a real hundred year
old antique steam train and throw it off
a cliff so we went to Industrial Light
magic and had them build a miniature one
for us and we threw that one off the
cliff a team of special-effects
technicians painstakingly created a
quarter scale train as small as we could
make it you know as the model and still
retain you know all the scale of this
explosion and the surrounding area
everything to look right all right it's
a nice beautiful expensive model sitting
down there gorgeous thing the model
makers love it and we're about to take
it and fling it off this trestle and
smash it to pieces we've believed the
frame the chassis as strategic points
that hopefully hopefully it'll coach
event just like that it should and it's
all over it's all over two seconds and
it was about two weeks job put together
the production crew used six cameras to
capture every angle of the crash and
after one final safety check everything
was ready
well I hope you've enjoyed this inside
peek at the Back to the Future trilogy I
know I am but you know there still is
one more Back to the Future secret that
everybody seems to want to know the
answer to is there gonna be a Back to
the Future Part for well it doesn't look
likely partner I'm Kirk Cameron thanks
again for joining me and remember the
future is what you make of it